{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10080\viewh17520\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Works Cited\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li600\fi-600\sl480\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Ackerly, David\'a0D. "Community Assembly, Niche Conservatism, and Adaptive Evolution in Changing Environments." 
\i International journal of plant sciences
\i0  164 (2003): S165-84. Print.\
Adler, Peter B., et al. "Functional Traits Explain Variation in Plant Life History Strategies." 
\i Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
\i0  111.2 (2014): 740. Print.\
Aguirre, A. A. 
\i Conservation Medicine : Ecological Health in Practice
\i0 . Oxford ; New York: Oxford University Press, 2002. Print.\
Assis, J., et al. "Climate\uc0\u8208 driven Range Shifts Explain the Distribution of Extant Gene Pools and Predict Future Loss of Unique Lineages in a Marine Brown Alga." 
\i Molecular ecology
\i0  23.11 (2014): 2797-810. Print.\
Baayen, R. H., D. J. Davidson, and D. M. Bates. "Mixed- Effects Modeling with Crossed Random Effects for Subjects and Items." 
\i Journal of Memory and Language
\i0  59.4 (2008): 390-412. Print.\
Bertrand, Romain, et al. "Changes in Plant Community Composition Lag Behind Climate Warming in Lowland Forests." 
\i Nature
\i0  479.7374 (2011): 517. Print.\
Chen, I-C, et al. "Rapid Range Shifts of Species Associated with High Levels of Climate Warming.(REPORTS)(Author Abstract)." 
\i Science
\i0  333.6045 (2011): 1024. Print.\
Connell, Joseph H. "The Influence of Interspecific Competition and Other Factors on the Distribution of the Barnacle Chthamalus Stellatus." 
\i Ecology
\i0  42.4 (1961): 710-23. Print.\
Contreras, Marco A., David Affleck, and Woodam Chung. "Evaluating Tree Competition Indices as Predictors of Basal Area Increment in Western Montana Forests." 
\i Forest Ecology and Management
\i0  262.11 (2011): 1939-49. Print.\
Coomes, David A., and Peter J. Grubb. "Colonization, Tolerance, Competition and Seed- Size Variation within Functional Groups." 
\i Trends in Ecology & Evolution
\i0  18.6 (2003): 283-91. Print.\
Cornwell, William K., and David D. Ackerly. "Community Assembly and Shifts in Plant Trait Distributions Across an Environmental Gradient in Coastal California." 
\i Ecological Monographs
\i0  79.1 (2009): 109-26. Print.\
Cornwell, William K., Dylan W. Schwilk, and David D. Ackerly. "A trait\uc0\u8208 based Test for Habitat Filtering: Convex Hull Volume." 
\i Ecology
\i0  87.6 (2006): 1465-71. Print.\
Davis, Andrew J., et al. "Making Mistakes when Predicting Shifts in Species Range in Response to Global Warming." 
\i Nature
\i0  391.6669 (1998): 783. Print.\
Davis, M. B., and R. G. Shaw. 
\i Range Shifts and Adaptive Responses to Quaternary Climate Change
\i0 . 292 Vol. , 2001. Print.\
Doak, Daniel F., and William F. Morris. "Demographic Compensation and Tipping Points in Climate- Induced Range Shifts." 
\i Nature
\i0  467.7318 (2010): 959. Print.\
Ettinger, Ailene, and Janneke Hillerislambers. "Climate Isn't Everything: Competitive Interactions and Variation by Life Stage Will also Affect Range Shifts in a Warming World." 
\i American Journal of Botany
\i0  100.7 (2013): 1344. Print.\
Fisichelli, Nicholas, Lee E. Frelich, and Peter B. Reich. "Sapling Growth Responses to Warmer Temperatures \'91 Cooled\'92 by Browse Pressure." 
\i Global Change Biology
\i0  18.11 (2012): 3455-63. Print.\
Frenne, Pieter, et al. "Latitudinal Gradients as Natural Laboratories to Infer Species' Responses to Temperature." 
\i The Journal of Ecology
\i0  101.3 (2013): 784. Print.\
Hampe, Arndt, and R\'e9 Petit. "Conserving Biodiversity Under Climate Change: The Rear Edge Matters." 
\i Ecology Letters
\i0  8.5 (2005): 461-7. Print.\
Harsch, M. A., et al. "Are Treelines Advancing? A Global Meta-Analysis of Treeline Response to Climate Warming." 
\i Ecology Letters; Ecol.Lett.
\i0  12.10 (2009): 1040-9. Print.\
Honnay, Olivier, et al. "Possible Effects of Habitat Fragmentation and Climate Change on the Range of Forest Plant Species." 
\i Ecology Letters
\i0  5.4 (2002): 525-30. Print.\
Hus\'e1kov\'e1, Iveta, and Zuzana M\'fcnzbergov\'e1. "The Effect of Current and Historical Landscape Structure and Species Life\uc0\u8208  History Traits on Species Distribution in Dry Grassland\u8208  Like Forest Openings." 
\i Journal of Vegetation Science
\i0  27.3 (2016): 545-56. Print.\
Jenkins, Jerry. 
\i The Harvard Forest Flora : An Inventory, Analysis, & Ecological History
\i0 . Eds. Glenn Motzkin and Kirsten Ward. Petersham, Mass.: Harvard Forest, 2008. Print.\
Keddy, Paul A. 
\i Competition
\i0 . 2nd ed. ed. Dordrecht ; Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001. Print.\
Lamanna, Christine, et al. "Functional Trait Space and the Latitudinal Diversity Gradient.(SPECIAL FEATURE: ECOLOGY)(Report)(Author Abstract)." 
\i Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States
\i0  111.38 (2014): 13745. Print.\
Laughlin, Daniel C. 
\i The Intrinsic Dimensionality of Plant Traits and its Relevance to Community Assembly
\i0 . 102 Vol. , 2014. Print.\
Loarie, Scott R., et al. "The Velocity of Climate Change." 
\i Nature
\i0  462.7276 (2009): 1052. Print.\
Loehle, C., and Environmental Research. "Height Growth Rate Tradeoffs Determine Northern and Southern Range Limits for Trees." 
\i J.Biogeogr.
\i0  25.4 (1998)Print.\
Louthan, Am, Df Doak, and A. L. Angert. 
\i Where and when do Species Interactions Set Range Limits?
\i0 . 30 Vol. , 2015. Print.\
Luo, Yong, and Han Y. H. Chen. "Competition, Species Interaction and Ageing Control Tree Mortality in Boreal Forests." 
\i Journal of Ecology
\i0  99.6 (2011): 1470-80. Print.\
Lusk, Christoper H., and Benjamin Smith. "Life History Differences and Tree Species Coexistence in an Old- Growth New Zealand Rain Forest." 
\i Ecology
\i0  79.3 (1998): 795. Print.\
Mat\'edas, Luis, and Alistair S. Jump. "Asymmetric Changes of Growth and Reproductive Investment Herald Altitudinal and Latitudinal Range Shifts of Two Woody Species." 
\i Global Change Biology
\i0  21.2 (2015): 882-96. Print.\
Matias, Luis, and Alistair S. Jump. "Interactions between Growth, Demography and Biotic Interactions in Determining Species Range Limits in a Warming World: The Case of Pinus Sylvestris." 
\i Forest Ecology and Management
\i0  282 (2012): 10. Print.\
Mcgill, Brian J., et al. "Rebuilding Community Ecology from Functional Traits." 
\i Trends in Ecology & Evolution
\i0  21.4 (2006): 178-85. Print.\
Mclaughlin, Blair C., and Erika S. Zavaleta. "Predicting Species Responses to Climate Change: Demography and Climate Microrefugia in California Valley Oak ( Quercus Lobata)." 
\i Global Change Biology
\i0  18.7 (2012): 2301-12. Print.\
Moran, Emily V., and Rhys A. Ormond. "Simulating the Interacting Effects of Intraspecific Variation, Disturbance, and Competition on Climate-Driven Range Shifts in Trees." 
\i PloS one
\i0  10.11 (2015): e0142369. Print.\
Nissen, T., and D. Midmore. "Stand Basal Area as an Index of Tree Competitiveness in Timber Intercropping." 
\i Agroforestry Systems; An International Journal incorporating Agroforestry Forum
\i0  54.1 (2002): 51-60. Print.\
Parmesan, Camille, and Gary Yohe. "A Globally Coherent Fingerprint of Climate Change Impacts Across Natural Systems." 
\i Nature
\i0  421.6918 (2003): 37. Print.\
Parmesan, Camille. "Ecological and Evolutionary Responses to Recent Climate Change." 
\i Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, and Systematics
\i0  37 (2006): 637. Print.\
Pearson, Richard G., and Terence P. Dawson. "Predicting the Impacts of Climate Change on the Distribution of Species: Are Bioclimate Envelope Models Useful?" 
\i Global Ecology and Biogeography
\i0  12.5 (2003): 361-71. Print.\
Pigot, Alex L., and Joseph A. Tobias. "Species Interactions Constrain Geographic Range Expansion Over Evolutionary Time." 
\i Ecology Letters
\i0  16.3 (2013): 330-8. Print.\
Prentice, I. C., Patrick J. Bartlein, and Thompson Webb. "Vegetation and Climate Change in Eastern North America since the Last Glacial Maximum." 
\i Ecology
\i0  72.6 (1991): 2038-56. Print.\
Purves, Drew W. "The Demography of Range Boundaries Versus Range Cores in Eastern US Tree Species." 
\i Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences
\i0  276.1661 (2009): 1477-84. Print.\
Rivas, J., et al. "The Effect of Competition on Individual Tree Basal Area Growth in Mature Stands of Pinus Cooperi Blanco in Durango ( Mexico)." 
\i European Journal of Forest Research
\i0  124.2 (2005): 133-42. Print.\
Sch\'f6b, Christian, et al. "Variability in Functional Traits Mediates Plant Interactions Along Stress Gradients." 
\i Journal of Ecology
\i0  101.3 (2013): 753-62. Print.\
Sexton, Jason, et al. "Evolution and Ecology of Species Range Limits." 
\i Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, and Systematics
\i0  40 (2009): 415. Print.\
Spear, Ray W., Margaret B. Davis, and Linda C. K. Shane. "Late Quaternary History of Low- and Mid- Elevation Vegetation in the White Mountains of New Hampshire." 
\i Ecological Monographs
\i0  64.1 (1994): 85. Print.\
---. "Late Quaternary History of Low\uc0\u8208  and Mid\u8208 Elevation Vegetation in the White Mountains of New Hampshire." 
\i Ecological Monographs
\i0  64.1 (1994): 85-109. Print.\
Stahl, Ulrike, Bj\'f6rn Reu, and Christian Wirth. "Predicting Species' Range Limits from Functional Traits for the Tree Flora of North America." 
\i Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
\i0  111.38 (2014): 13739. Print.\
Suttle, K. B., Meredith A. Thomsen, and Mary E. Power. "Species Interactions Reverse Grassland Responses to Changing Climate." 
\i Science (New York, N.Y.)
\i0  315.5812 (2007): 640. Print.\
Svenning, Jens\uc0\u8208 christian, and Flemming Skov. "Could the Tree Diversity Pattern in Europe be Generated by Postglacial Dispersal Limitation?" 
\i Ecology Letters
\i0  10.6 (2007): 453-60. Print.\
Swab, Rebecca M., et al. "Niche Models Tell Half the Story: Spatial Context and life\uc0\u8208 history Traits Influence Species Responses to Global Change." 
\i Journal of Biogeography
\i0  39.7 (2012): 1266-77. Print.\
Taylor, A. H. "Forest Expansion and Climate Change in the Mountain Hemlock ( Tsuga Mertensiana) Zone, Lassen Volcanic National Park, California, U.S.A." 
\i Arctic and Alpine Research
\i0  27.3 (1995): 207-16. Print.\
Thomas, Chris D., et al. "Extinction Risk from Climate Change." 
\i Nature
\i0  427.6970 (2004): 145. Print.\
Thomas, Chris D., Aldina M. A. Franco, and Jane K. Hill. "Range Retractions and Extinction in the Face of Climate Warming." 
\i Trends in Ecology & Evolution
\i0  21.8 (2006): 415-6. Print.\
Venn, Susanna, et al. "Using Plant Functional Traits to Explain Community Composition Across a Strong Environmental Filter in Australian Alpine Snowpatches." 
\i Plant Ecology; An International Journal
\i0  212.9 (2011): 1491-9. Print.\
Zhu, Kai, Christopher W. Woodall, and James S. Clark. "Failure to Migrate: Lack of Tree Range Expansion in Response to Climate Change." 
\i Global Change Biology
\i0  18.3 (2012): 1042-52. Print.\
Zimmermann, Niklaus, et al. "Climatic Extremes Improve Predictions of Spatial Patterns of Tree Species." 
\i Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America
\i0  106 (2009): 19723. Print.\
}